-(Nuttanon Promthaisong 643020606-2 sec4 paragraph1)
Many years ago, there was an Emperor, who was so excessively fond of new clothes, that he
spent all his money in dress. He did not trouble himself in the least about his soldiers; nor did
he care to go either to the theatre or the chase, except for the opportunities then afforded him
for displaying his new clothes. He had a different suit for each hour of the day; and as of any
other king or emperor, one is accustomed to say, "he is sitting in council," it was always said of
him, "The Emperor is sitting in his wardrobe."
Time passed merrily in the large town which was his capital; strangers arrived every day at the
court. One day, two rogues, calling themselves weavers, made their appearance. They gave out
that they knew how to weave stuffs of the most beautiful colors and elaborate patterns, the
clothes manufactured from which should have the wonderful property of remaining invisible to
everyone who was unfit for the office he held, or who was extraordinarily simple in character.

---
---
-(Tham numai 643021326-3 sec4 paragraph4)
So the faithful old minister went into the hall, where the knaves were working with all their
might, at their empty looms. "What can be the meaning of this?" thought the old man, opening
his eyes very wide. "I cannot discover the least bit of thread on the looms." However, he did not
express his thoughts aloud.

The impostors requested him very courteously to be so good as to come nearer their looms;
and then asked him whether the design pleased him, and whether the colors were not very
beautiful; at the same time pointing to the empty frames. The poor old minister looked and
looked, he could not discover anything on the looms, for a very good reason, viz: there was
nothing there. "What!" thought he again. "Is it possible that I am a simpleton? I have never
thought so myself; and no one must know it now if I am so. Can it be, that I am unfit for my
office? No, that must not be said either. I will never confess that I could not see the stuff."
---
-(Marisa Pinkaew 643021429-3 sec4 paragraph7)
"Does not the stuff appear as beautiful to you, as it did to my lord the minister?" asked the
impostors of the Emperor's second ambassador; at the same time making the same gestures as
before, and talking of the design and colors which were not there.
"I certainly am not stupid!" thought the messenger. "It must be, that I am not fit for my good,
profitable office! That is very odd; however, no one shall know anything about it." And
accordingly he praised the stuff he could not see, and declared that he was delighted with both
colors and patterns. "Indeed, please your Imperial Majesty," said he to his sovereign when he
returned, "the cloth which the weavers are preparing is extraordinarily magnificent."
---
---
-(Nuttanon Promthaisong 643020606-2 sec4 paragraph8)
The whole city was talking of the splendid cloth which the Emperor had ordered to be woven at
his own expense.
And now the Emperor himself wished to see the costly manufacture, while it was still in the
loom. Accompanied by a select number of officers of the court, among whom were the two
honest men who had already admired the cloth, he went to the crafty impostors, who, as soon

as they were aware of the Emperor's approach, went on working more diligently than ever;
although they still did not pass a single thread through the looms.
---
---
-(Tham numai 643021326-3 sec4 paragraph11)
The rogues sat up the whole of the night before the day on which the procession was to take
place, and had sixteen lights burning, so that everyone might see how anxious they were to
finish the Emperor's new suit. They pretended to roll the cloth off the looms; cut the air with
their scissors; and sewed with needles without any thread in them. "See!" cried they, at last.
"The Emperor's new clothes are ready!"
And now the Emperor, with all the grandees of his court, came to the weavers; and the rogues
raised their arms, as if in the act of holding something up, saying, "Here are your Majesty's
trousers! Here is the scarf! Here is the mantle! The whole suit is as light as a cobweb; one might
fancy one has nothing at all on, when dressed in it; that, however, is the great virtue of this
delicate cloth."
---
-(Marisa Pinkaew 643021429-3 sec4 paragraph14)
"But the Emperor has nothing at all on!" said a little child.
"Listen to the voice of innocence!" exclaimed his father; and what the child had said was
whispered from one to another.
"But he has nothing at all on!" at last cried out all the people. The Emperor was vexed, for he
knew that the people were right; but he thought the procession must go on now! And the lords
of the bedchamber took greater pains than ever, to appear holding up a train, although, in
reality, there was no train to hold.
---
